Hello, good evening everyone.
How are we doing?
Sorry for the delay.
I'm hoping the weekend was good. Dying?
Why?
Okay, super busy. Okay.
I hope you guys had the time to go
through last week's.
test spread and do you guys still have
any questions for the tests on?
Sometime this week,
pretty sure Thursday onwards.
Please let us know.
Or if you have any questions in general
for now,
and then we can begin whenever so long
you would join. But in the meantime,
if you guys have any questions,
test or task or anything in general,
concepts, please let us know.
So, trimester calendar says...
Ohh.
Oh, okay, that's not for this one.
We don't have end of unit assessment exam
right as such. We just have the test.
So this week would be the first attempt.
And if you have a complete, actually, no,
online students wouldn't have the
complete if you guys have a discuss.
That would mean that you guys have to
attend the interview and are more or less
good.
Once you pass the interview,
you should be...
OK, and get the complete.
If you guys have a resubmit.
Nearly there,
and a redo means you come back next.
week, you attempt the test again.
And if that's the case again,
you still have redo,
you come back again in week 11.
Fine, 10, 11, yes, 11 for the last attack.
For the test.
Remind me again, when is the interview?
Interview is next week onwards.
Okay, yes, so as Alonie said,
we will be practising their interview
questions again.
It will be just like about 10 minutes
each.
Um, it would be about the past half,
so nothing too complicated.
Most past concepts, rather, not past half,
but past.
Concepts.
We will see it shortly when she joins.
As you said,
so make sure we do have guests,
we do have some common activity and...
Mics and cameras is possible,
but at least microphones, please.
Yeah.
Anything else?
Is it good?
I'm not sure about that,
but at least speed testing, yes.
After the teacher and interview,
are we done? Okay,
so as long as you are done with all your
task submissions and everything,
you're more or less done.
You just have to submit your portfolio at
the end.
Don't have to do anything until next
trimester.
Then next trimester you have other units,
so life begins again.
Also with the interview,
in the e-mail that Aaron sent out,
it did state that you must have your
webcam on as well.
Yeah, so that there's no...
Yeah, some suspicious activity going on,
so in case,
please have your webcams and mics
available.
Can I please ask, with the portfolio,
can you please go over it again,
Yes.
what we have to submit in that,
because I think I missed that part.
Mhm.
Okay, so for the portfolio, it would be...
Wait, let me get my OnTrack. Sorry. Can I.
..
Can I just borrow someone's name here so
that I can go through on track and just
do a super fast share my screen?
Anyone volunteering so that I can share
it?
Sure, thanks, Jude.
Let me look you up first.
It is.
Sorry,
slightly restore my computer for now.
Just turn my camera off with this.
Is my screen visible?
Yes, Mar.
Yes, I can.
Yes.
That's all good.
So you would see the create portfolio
here.
Once you're done with all of your tasks,
you just come up here at the end.
You would just do this.
Yes, I have read the criteria.
You have to input your grades dependingly
and then do the next.
And then you would remember your P10
would have the learning summary report.
You would have, after you submit your P10,
you can do some modifications also,
and then you submit the final one when
you're doing your portfolio.
You submit that.
So I don't have a solution for now.
So when you have one here.
And then you would just do next.
You would select all of your tasks that
you would want to include in your
portfolio or any other files,
and then you just review it and you
submit. That's it. That's it.
That's your portfolio submission.
So it would have all the tasks that
you've done.
For the unit.
whatever else files you want to share for
the teaching team to see that you've done.
And that is the only thing that is graded
in this unit for the trimester.
So if you don't share your portfolio at
the end, no marks, guys.
Please do submit that.
Okay.
Thank you. Thanks for explaining.
That's all good. Question, question,
question. Can you go over the quiz again?
You mean the test too?
Sorry, yeah, sorry, sorry.
Okay,
so we have gone through it last week.
Is there any specific question that you
wanted me to go through?
The hand execution, the codes?
The Talent OnTrack will automatically
submit the portfolio with your completed
tasks if you forget to do it.
Technical, yes,
but sometimes there has been some mishaps
that happened last semester.
So make sure to do it on your own.
When you're done.
When is the date? Oh, no. Well,
the portfolio,
there wouldn't be any fix and resubmit.
It's just you submit it and that's it.
Yeah.
Ohh.
When is the date for the portfolio
submission?
It would technically be end of this month
to, I think.
Right? I will check. I will double check.
S.
Hi, sorry I'm late.
I'm actually at my friend's place,
Yeah.
so bear with me.
I'm just trying to adjust. Okay,
so welcome.
I think you have best this week.
I have prepared some interview questions
for the class today so that you know we
can ask.
questions to each other regarding how the
test would be, how it will proceed,
how do you want to go ahead with it.
But just for the...
actual test purposes,
what I'll do is I'll call out each
person's name and we'll do one question
each so that, you know, we don't have,
how do I say,
just because we do not have that much
time to take so many questions,
we'll just do 2 rounds of questions and
then we will go ahead with it.
The question would be very simple,
very easy.
I just want to make you all a bit
comfortable on how the interview would be
and so that you don't stress about the
interview things. Okay.
So let's make it look very real so that
we can practise it better. So if possible,
I would really appreciate if you guys can
on the camera.
I understand you must be travelling and
all. I don't expect everyone to.
want to on their camera,
but just for the purpose of it,
if you can on your cameras,
so we can just go ahead with the
interview questions.
And then we'll start.
Or what you can do if you're not
comfortable,
what you can do is when I'm asking you a
question,
just on your camera and then turn it off
again. So that also works for me.
If you just want to do microphone,
that also works for me.
Anything that you're comfortable with.
My camera is great.
Sorry,
I'll be just using my phone because I'm
using my friend's laptop.
I don't have anything with me. So...
Okay, so we'll start with TARA.
I'm going in the screen the way people
are seen to me,
do not think that I'm picking you all.
Okay, so whenever you have an interview,
how does it work?
So they will give you all,
I think they'll give you a time that you
will receive a call from maybe 6.
PM to 7 PM.
They'll not tell you the exact time,
but it would be only a one time,
one hour duration.
So don't worry that if we say 7,
we'll call you at 9. We'll not do that,
but it's only 6 to 7 PM.
Like the slot will be given to you.
And then on basis of that,
they'll call you. They'll be like, hey.
Are you ready for a quick call?
And they'll call you once you're ready.
What you do is the first thing is you
keep your camera on because camera is the
important thing and they'll start asking
you questions on how the unit was.
Usually every person taking the interview,
they try to make you a little more
comfortable.
and then they start asking you questions.
They'll not directly bombard you with
questions because it's like,
that's not what we are here for. Okay.
So we'll ask you about how your day was,
how did you proceed. So with TARA,
what I'll do is I'll do the actual
interview as if I don't know who TARA is.
Okay.
And then we can do an example because I
think she has the camera on.
So it's a little easier for me to.
You know, treat it as an interview thing.
OK, TARA, are you ready?
Yes.
Yeah, okay, perfect. So what I'll do is.
So you receive a message something like
this.
I'll put it on the chat so you're
familiar with the message.
So be sure.
So something like this.
Usually all the interviewers before they
call you,
they'll post a message like this that,
hey, who I am,
because they're not necessarily,
I'll be someone who will be taking your
interviews. It could be Vrisha,
it could be Clement, it could be Ben,
I don't know.
So they'll start with this message and
then they'll be like, okay.
So, Tara will start. Hi, Tara.
How was your day?
What did you do on your day today?
My day was alright,
just hung out with my children.
Didn't do much at all.
That's nice. So I think with SIT 102,
how do you think, how, how was the unit?
Did you enjoy it? What was it like?
I actually really did enjoy it, learning,
you know,
what goes into programming and building
programmes and how all the structure and
everything of the code impacts the code.
And yeah,
it was very interesting and I thoroughly
enjoyed it.
So what languages did you learn?
So we started off learning C# and then
transitioned to C and also learned some
Python with one of the credit tasks.
Oh, nice. So what did you like?
Like which language is your favorite?
AN.
I mean, I've worked with C before,
so I feel like I found that a bit easier,
but I did like how, I guess,
user-friendly and sort of straightforward
Python is as well.
Oh, that's nice.
So when it comes to C and C#,
what difference do you think both the
languages have?
They had minor differences.
So with some of their cases, like,
you know, with C, with right line,
you'd have right line in, I think it's,
I forget the names of that,
I think it's snake case with the
underscore.
But with C, it was the camel case.
I always forget what each one is called,
Mmh.
but it's slight differences like that.
Their syntax was fairly similar,
but it was just subtle differences like
that when transitioning from C.
To C.
So when it comes to C#,
what are the different data types you've
used?
The data types in C#,
I think we used integer.
String.
Yeah, that's pretty much right.
What do you think is the main difference
when it comes to integer and stream?
Integer is a number or yeah,
a numerical value,
whereas a string can be
basically any of the alphanumerical
characters, sorry, letters, numbers, etc.
Yeah, that's right. Okay,
so this is just an example. Thank you,
Tara, for being the first person.
So this is how the flow would go.
Oh, good.
While I don't want to make her
uncomfortable,
but I actually picked on what she is
saying and I'm asking questions based on
that. I don't want to confuse her. So
You know,
I don't want her to be someone like,
like I could sense that, you know,
after integer strings,
she's struggling to think what is the
other data type.
So I would not be forcing her to,
you know, tell me the other data type.
I just,
what we are here to do is we are here to
actually understand that, oh,
you understand the concept, you know,
what are the data types,
you understand what.
does an integer mean?
What does a string mean? That's it.
All the interviewers are going to be so
nice, so generic. For example,
if she would have said something wrong
for an integer,
I think I would be the first person to
tell her, no, you know what,
integer means this and this is how it
goes.
And you know how she pointed out very
minor difference between C and C,
but then.
That's something we are happy to know
that, oh,
you actually understand the difference
between a C# and a C.
So that's how it is supposed to be. Like,
that's how we'll go for the interview.
Okay,
so now for every student that I approach,
now I will just ask you one question,
not the lengthier version. So just.
You know,
we can save up the time and actually do
one-to-one conversations after,
because that's what the session is for.
OK,
next question we have is Chun Sen ****.
Are you there?
Hi, how are you doing today?
Well, I'm dying, but yes, I'm good.
Why are you dying today?
Uh, stress.
Don't stress,
well do well do something easy. So,
what's your what is your favourite
language C or C?
My favourite language is the love
language. I'm sorry, Python, Python.
A Python,
but I'm not asking questions regarding
Yeah.
Python,
so you have to choose between C# and C.
Oh man, I guess C then.
C? But I think you're dying,
so I'll mess with you more and I'll ask
you questions on C because I want to mess
again.
I...
Okay, sure.
So tell me about what you learned in C.
What do you mean by that?
What did you learn while going through
the going through the unit or progressing
in C#?
What are the different concepts that you
learned and how was it different for you?
Are you talking about the difference
between C and C,
or are you talking about the fundamentals?
No, no, just in, yeah,
just the fundamentals of C#.
Ahh.
Are you, are you trying to ask me, like?
Loops.
Yeah, okay, you learned loops. Yeah, okay.
Yeah,
And all the settings, OK.
so what are the different loops you
studied in C#?
Oh, okay. We need while loops, for loops,
and the two loops. Yep.
Are they do loops?
Is it wldeakineduau? Sorry, yeah,
is it called, yeah?
Do you want to think again?
All loops, while loop.
That's one more, right?
There is one more,
and you were saying it right, just a...
Arrangement of words are wrong.
Wildulu.
No, yes.
What is the main difference between a
Do I look?
Ah, there you go.
while and a do-while loop,
according to you?
Oh yeah,
so the do-all loop will run a programme
first, and then it will...
to the loop again depending on what the
input is.
Whereas the while loop will be like,
if it's true,
Hmm.
then it will keep going on until it
returns false, or like, if like the input.
Okay, according to you,
which will run at least once,
while or do while?
But it will run once.
Yes, perfect.
And I'm very distracted by the cat behind
That is once first, yes.
Yeah.
you, but yeah, you did really well.
I think you have blurred your background,
but I can still see your cat.
Is it a cat or a dog?
It's a human pet.
No, just kidding. It is a cat.
Okay.
Nice. Okay.
So you did well and just have the same or
around zone when you do your interview
with the person you're taking the
interview with.
Then I wish you had Vrisha,
but I don't think so.
She will be able to decide it,
but I wish you had Vrisha because I saw
your message. You want Vrisha.
I'll vote for it, sure.
How good!
Okay,
so we'll take the next person on my list
is Zach Gutner.
Sorry if I'm pronouncing it wrong.
No, you got it alright.
Can you hear me alright?
Oh, hi. It's so nice to see everyone.
I've never seen you all,
Hi.
so it's nice to see you.
Thank you for keeping your camera on.
So how was your day?
Yeah, very busy, just doing a lot of work,
yeah.
Very busy.
Okay, so what is your favourite language?
C#, C?
I think my favourite language is more C
than C#.
Oh, okay. Is there any specific reason?
Just the structure of it in comparison to
some of the other codes I've used.
So previously, I do web design as my job.
So I have worked with a lot of HTML,
JavaScript, PHP coding,
but I also mess around with Discord bots,
so stuff like TypeScript and just
JavaScript, stuff like that,
so similarities I found a lot easier to
work.
With C.
After a very long time,
I've met someone who knows JavaScript,
so I'm very impressed, I think. But okay,
so could you give me an example of what
is enum? Do you know what is enum?
Enamul is a set of static data where you
can declare it for like menus.
Yeah.
So it will be a value that will never
change.
So I can declare it in capitals for like
start, quit, settings, stuff like that.
How is it different from a switch case?
Like, you know?
So a difference towards like a switch
case is you can declare these at the
start of the programme where a switch
case you could add further to it with
conditions and do it through a set route.
So if you declared like the user is going
Mm.
to put in S or D, you can then
Change the switch to go to the S route,
D route with the function.
Oh yeah, perfect. Yeah, good.
You're terrible with your concepts.
I like it.
And giving an example of what you're
speaking about is a very good thing for
an interviewer because they understand
your answer a little more better. So yeah,
good thing. Nice.
Yeah.
Teh.
Have a good day and enjoy.
Yeah, thank you.
An I love your setup.
Okay,
the next person I have is Jacob William
Alexander.
The cat and the moon background.
Hi, how's it going?
I can't do camera at the moment. Yeah,
I do.
That's fine, that's fine.
but I can do mic, so...
Oh yeah,
you okay for me to ask you questions,
right?
Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, okay.
So just because I want to cover all the
questions that I have prepared,
is it okay if I ask you a little more
in-depth questions and stuff? Are you,
I just don't want to, yeah,
Absolutely, I would love that.
but I just don't want to, you know,
have your confidence low.
So are you okay with that?
Yeah, absolutely, 100%.
Okay, perfect. So...
What is a variable and why do we use it?
A variable is basically kind of like a,
well,
I like to think of it like a box that we
put a value in. That value could be,
you know,
a string or an integer or a floating
point number.
I'm probably getting my description wrong
here, but I...
See A variable as a pointer to a piece of
memory in the computer.
Oh yeah, that's right.
That's a very good explanation.
So have you come across any of if
statements and what why do we call if
Yeah.
statement and not a loop because we you
know we have while do while for loops.
But for if,
we always call it as if statement.
Do you know why?
Well, statements, in my experience,
usually come under different keywords.
And those different keywords basically
are the instructions that we're stating
to the computer as to like what we want
to do. A loop will repeat
a series of instructions until it meets a
certain condition.
Whereas an if statement will basically
return true if a certain condition is met
and then execute that block of code.
Yeah, yeah, that's a very good answer.
I like it.
Can I ask you one more question?
Do you have the time? Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
What is the purpose of an else statement?
Why do we need an else statement?
An else statement,
you basically put it on the end of a
conditional statement,
such as an if statement.
Yeah.
So it basically is what code do you, like,
this is how I think of it,
what code do you want to execute if that
condition
in the if statement was false.
So normally with an if statement,
it would execute a block of code if a
condition returns true,
whereas an else statement would be for if
that condition returned false.
But you can mix, you can swap them around,
right? Like you can in a way.
Oh, me.
Yeah.
because you can write a condition in your
if statement that might cheque to see if
a value is false,
but that's returning that that falseness
was true.
So you can sort of mix things around if
you wanted to.
Yeah, that makes sense. That's very good,
good answers.
Just make sure that when you were
speaking next, maybe for if else you can,
I felt this,
that you could have given an example,
Okay.
like if a equal equal 5, for example,
if I'm asking a user for an input for.
for a positive and a negative number.
So we print out either positive number,
else we don't print out anything.
So maybe you can give an example to
Okay.
explain it. I think that's what I...
Yeah, that's a good idea.
That's a good idea.
I probably should have done that, yeah.
Yeah, so this whenever, you know,
if a person is asking questions and if
you know they're not understanding what
you're speaking,
but if you give an example,
they understand what you're speaking,
you know.
Alright, fantastic.
Yeah, perfect. Next,
we have SHAHAD AL ABBASI.
Thank you.
This.
Hey,
are you okay for me to ask you questions?
Mhm.
Yes.
Yes, okay.
So I have a list of questions and I see
that the people we have is a little less.
So is it okay if I ask you a little more
technical questions,
like a little more detailed questions?
Okay.
Yeah, if you don't know the answer,
it's okay. I'll give you the answer.
Okay, it.
Just I want to cover the questions. Okay,
so what is a loop and why do we use loops?
Yes.
We use Lube to.
For example, to like if I,
if we have a functions like I...
Small than five or something like that,
we need something to make sure that the
conditioner it will be,
it's not just true or false,
so it's we get we have we have to take a
result,
so the loops keep going until we get the
result.
Yeah, that's right.
What is the difference between while and
a for loop?
Um...
For loops,
and like need to they do the loop,
then they see the conditioner.
Mm.
While loop, like while loop, it's like,
after the result, they see the condition,
and then they come back to the, like,
to the functions or to the what they want.
OK, so for this one,
what you can do is you can start a little
slow.
You can explain with a while loop saying
that in while there is a condition,
for example.
I should be less than or equal to 50.
If that condition is meant,
we execute those statements,
else we don't. For the for loop,
In.
we initialize, for example, I equal to 0.
Same,
we cheque the condition I less than or
equal to 50. If that is meant.
Oh.
We print out the statements. If not,
we will do increment or a decrement.
That means we'll do I or I something like
that.
So this is also a good way of explaining.
I'm not saying your answer was wrong.
This just gives a detailed answer to the
interview.
Mhm.
Okay,
because with your answer was a little bit
Yeah.
tricky.
Did she understand that she not
Yeah.
understand,
but this answer maybe might help you.
So for example,
if anytime any interviewer asks you a
question, you can explain it with.
individual thing. While loop first,
then for loop. And now if you think,
What?
now you can explain the difference that
for me,
the difference is how they are structured.
That is the main difference for me.
Second thing,
I would prefer for loop because it also
gives me an option to increment or
decrement.
That's something I would say. Makes sense?
Yeah.
Hmm.
Yeah, yeah,
I think I think better to give the if I
give examples,
so because sometimes I understand what I
Yeah, yeah.
Say, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
it's a bit little, as I said,
what I can say, yeah.
I think with the start that giving the
example is always helpful, so yeah,
Yeah.
I'll ask you one more question.
Okay,
I'll give you a very simple question.
If I want to cheque or if I want to.
cheque whether the user has entered an
odd number or an even number.
According to you,
what loop or what function or what method
or what would I use, what you would use.
One second, like.
So a program,
I want a programme to test whether the
user is entering an odd number or an even
number. So what would I use?
So we use like a for loop with the I,
so like with I not equal.
Not equal to OK, yeah,
then so if if it's even number.
Yes, so it's I equal 2.
So if it's even number, they will keep.
Yeah, Teh.
Yeah, makes sense. Um, I think...
Yeah, yeah. With the odd,
it's I think we're equal 11. Am I right?
Yeah, yeah,
what you can do is you can also say that
you could use if else if the number is
divisible by two,
Oh yeah, that's it. Yeah.
like same thing for your for loop, yeah,
that is another, yeah,
Yeah, yeah.
you can do because if it's a divisible by
two, you'll get a remainder 0,
so it's an even number.
If it is not divisible by two,
it's an odd number, so.
Yeah, that could also be there.
Good answer, very good, you know,
Yeah, that's it.
reply to me.
Just same thing I would give you as a
feedback is that just be a little more
confident and just give an example and it
will help you.
For the second question that I asked you,
how you gave an example, I equal equal to,
I really liked it. So.
Good, good answer.
Thank you.
Thank you. Next I have, oh, sorry,
I have one hand raised. SAAD SULTAN,
do you have a question?
Hi, sorry for asking this a bit late,
but I'm a bit unclear about the test too.
Hi.
I've read the task sheet,
but couldn't find the details of the exam
date, which you previously mentioned,
maybe. It was May 7th, right?
Is it possible for you to jump on a call
with Vrisha? Vrisha,
do you want to go into a breakout room so
you know he can get his questions cleared?
Yeah, 100% sure.
How do I do that?
How do I do that? Like a change?
Uh, Vrisha, I will call you.
Don't worry about it.
Okay.
Yes.
So the next person that I have is Michael
De Bheim. Are you here?
Hello?
Hi, are you here?
You ready for a few questions?
Yeah, sure. Sorry,
I can't turn the camera on. Yeah.
That's fine. That's fine. That's fine.
So I have a few questions that I want to
cover. Just give me a second. OK,
so what according to you is a function?
Uh, function.
is a like a group of code that would
perform a certain thing, certain task.
Okay.
Does it return a value?
Uh, yes.
Okay,
how is it different from a procedure?
A procedure would not return a value,
but it would.
Okay, so...
Yeah, yeah, go ahead.
So,
so you can you can still like perform
calculations within or change values,
but you don't need to return something to
like read out a line or something like
that.
Oh yeah, makes sense.
What do you understand by a procedure?
What do you mean by a procedure?
I think functions and procedures are very
similar,
but I would use a function to return a
value and a procedure that just needs to
perform some arbitrary task.
Oh, perfect. And
Booth.
What is a procedure call?
When you speak about procedure,
then what is a procedure call?
Method.
Sorry?
Is it a method?
Call the method.
On.
Not really.
Could you give an example of what is a
procedure call or have you come across
procedure calls?
Yeah, I'm drawing blank on this one,
sorry.
OK,
so procedure is basically a set of
instructions that we provide the computer,
so that, for example, if I...
If I do write line,
how does the computer know what does that
write line mean?
It's a set of instructions given to the
computer that, okay, this is there,
this is what write line is supposed to do.
Where is that write line stored?
It is stored in the main function.
Where is the main function stored?
In the splash kit library,
so procedure is a set of instructions
that is stored in this splash kit library.
All the instructions are stored in this
splash kit library because we are using
splash kit for this unit. OK,
what is the procedure called when I'm
calling something? For example,
if I do write line hello world or
something, anything.
Anything that I call from that procedure
is called a procedure call. Make sense?
OK, yep.
Perfect.
I think your other answers were good,
so don't worry about it.
Just make sure that through the test,
you have a quick walkthrough about what
are all the concepts that we're covering
from P1 to P9.
Sure, OK.
Perfect. Okay, my next person is JEZREEL,
but you are not an online student,
so I'll skip you.
The next question we have,
next person we have is Chris.
Are you here?
Yep, hello.
Hi, okay,
so are you ready for a few questions?
Yeah, I'll do my best.
Okay, perfect.
So a word according to you is a struct.
Yeah.
A shark,
it's a it's a custom type where it could
like hold.
Any sort of variable like integers or
strings, and you can...
Call it as a set of data, so, like,
for example, in one of those assignments,
Yeah.
we had to do data over a book,
and inside the had a string title,
the amount of pages as an integer,
and its location.
Okay.
And, um, yeah, you could just like...
Call it and...
Yeah, that's pretty much it, I'd say.
With the dot operator.
Yeah.
You know, have you come across functions?
Yes.
Yes,
can you explain me what is the difference
between pass by value and pass by
reference?
Okay, I'll just, I just did this recently,
so with a...
Oh, yeah.
So, in a in a function, if you...
Sorry,
I'm just trying to find a good way to
explain it.
So the pass by value would get a copy,
Yes, yes.
meaning like it will,
the changes you make in any, like,
whether it's in a procedure or function,
it will disappear,
but a pass by reference.
means the function works on the original
copy. So again, on that, well,
one of my last tasks,
we were doing like an account calculator
where you put in like your initial
deposit and then one of the functions.
And.
it would print like add a deposit.
So then that deposit adds to the
principal value.
So that would be a pass by reference.
The.
Okay, sorry from your answer,
I'm just a bit unclear.
Yeah.
So I asked a follow up question and this
is very common for, you know,
Mhm.
for the interviewers to ask you a follow
up question because if they've not
Yeah.
understood something.
So my follow up question is that,
will the original value be changed in the
past by value?
Uh, no.
No, okay, yeah, yeah,
I was a little unclear, yeah.
No, yeah, it says it that, yeah,
it's only a copy, so, like, if you,
if you use a pass by in a function,
it's only a copy of the original value,
so anything that's done in the function
doesn't apply to it.
Okay, perfect.
And what's the symbol when for pass by
Yeah.
difference? Like, how do we pass it?
Oh, it's an Ampersand. Is it Ampersand?
So you can answer it, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, perfect. All good. Amazing answer.
Then it was a very tough question to
Yeah.
Okay.
explain buzz by value and cross variation.
So good work.
Yeah.
Okay,
the next person I have is Maddie Van
Miller.
Haque.
Hello, hi.
Are you ready for a few questions? Yeah,
Yep.
okay.
So I think that you might have gone
through, you know,
how you've transitioned from C, C and C,
and you know,
there was this structuring code.
Assignment in which you converted your
code from C# to C. So,
Yep.
what are the major changes that you do
when you, you know, convert from C# to C?
Well, as Tara said earlier,
it's mostly minor syntax changes,
but then there's also with C,
you have to put all of your main code
inside of an int main function,
whereas in C# you don't have that. Yeah,
but other than that,
it's mostly like changing from Pascal's
case to snake case.
Things like that.
Okay,
so do you have to return anything when
you are using int main?
No, no, you do not.
Okay, so what do you understand by,
you know, how does...
How does a procedure work, like?
And how is it different from function?
Oh.
So procedures are past the void type,
so they technically don't have a type,
whereas functions have to be provided a
specific type.
Yeah.
So like a function would have, let's say,
int,
and then that means that you have to
return an integer. Otherwise,
the compiler will give you some sort of
error.
But with procedures,
you just leave it void and that means you
don't have to return anything at the end.
So they do work similarly in that they
can be used to group.
instructions that can be reused,
but the only major difference is that one
returns some sort of data value and then
the other one does not.
Okay, perfect. So, for example,
if I have i equal to 5 and i equal equal
5, what's the difference?
Well,
I believe that i equals 5 would be what
you would say when you're first declaring
the variable and then equals equals is
like if you're using it again,
that's like.
Kind of.
Like.
How do I say this?
Sorry, not too sure.
That's fine. So for example, if I do,
you know how we write the code and I
initialise with I equal 5.
So what am I doing?
Yes,
so you're assigning the value of 5 to the
Exactly. Now, in the condition,
if I'm putting I equal equal 5,
variable i.
so what I what am I doing?
Uh, ohh, that's the comparison,
so you're checking if I is equal to 5,
Exactly.
yeah.
Perfect. Good answers, by the way.
So just anytime you get stuck,
you can also ask the interview to give
you a little bit of hint so that,
you know, you can answer the question.
Don't say style it, you know, just ask,
Yeah.
we'll be more than happy to, you know,
help you out or give you a minor hint or
something.
Thank you.
That's okay. Okay,
I move on to the next one.
We have Ameen the SILVA.
Karbi, Ameen Dasilva, Karbi. Hi,
how are you?
I.
Yeah, good. How are you?
I'm good, I'm good.
Are you ready for a few questions?
Well, by hearing your questions,
I don't think I am ready. No, okay.
Oh, you're not? Okay,
so can I help you with something?
Are you stuck somewhere?
Um, I'm just behind,
I'm just running behind, um, but yeah, I,
Okay.
we can try, we can try.
Okay, you want to try? Okay,
so I don't want to break your confidence
Yeah.
or anything,
so we'll do something very simple. Okay,
That's OK.
Yep.
so...
Okay,
what do you understand by different data
types?
Different data types.
Um...
that they are expressed differently.
So for instance, you have integers.
You have float, you have...
other data types as well,
and they can be numbers or text,
or they can say either if something is
true or false.
Booking.
Okay, okay.
Have you come across something called as
DOLBEL?
Yes, I have come across double, yes.
Yes, so double the data, right?
Yeah, double data type, yeah.
Perfect. What is that like?
Where do we use it or when do we use it?
I'm pretty sure double data type is when
you have...
Two numbers separated by...
A.
What do you call this?
Sorry, I just had a blank.
But I think you have two numbers,
Oh, that's okay.
one next to each other,
but they represent something separately.
Mmh.
I can't remember,
I don't know how to explain it, but yeah,
I have come across double. Yeah.
Oh.
So you can explain double as numbers in
which we have decibel points. So 0.4367,
Decimal points, okay, yep, yep.
that is a double. Okay.
Do you know any loops?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Have you come across any loops?
Yeah, while, do while, for, yes,
I have come across loops, simplest thing,
yes, yes.
Okay,
could you explain me the syntax of a
while loop?
How is it exactly structured?
Yeah,
like when do we use while loop or yeah,
whatever you want to explain for the
while.
Okay.
Yeah, so.
For a while loop, you have...
A loop running while something is true.
Okay.
And I think a do-wow loop.
Um...
So the first one, the while loop,
cheques whether something is true or
false,
and the do while loop only cheques a
condition once, I think.
And then something else happens after
that. I can't remember what it is exactly.
That's okay.
So when it comes to while loop,
what we have is while there's a condition
that we want to check. If that is true,
we hop into the loop and we execute the
statements.
Yep, yep, yep.
When it comes to do while loop,
what we do is we do do,
we run the statements 1st and then we
cheque the condition.
Mm.
That's why the do while loop will always
run at least once. Okay,
Okay, yes, yeah.
so what I understand from the
conversation we had is that you are not,
you're not behind, you know, stones,
you know, a little bit of it.
Yeah.
What you have to do is you have to just
sit and quickly glance through the
concept.
What I would recommend in this is make
sure that you write it down.
Maybe just have like a short things for
yourself,
Mm-hmm.
like what does file mean or do while mean,
data types mean. Just write it down.
Study on a regular like every day,
like just, you know,
Mhm.
go through it before you go to sleep.
and it should be all good.
So don't worry about it.
Okay.
Don't stress about it. You're good to go.
Great. Thank you. Thanks.
Yeah.
The.
Yeah, perfect. Okay,
so the next we have is EDGAR.
I do.
Hi, hey, sorry, hey, sorry,
I was talking to.
Hi. Yeah, okay.
Are you ready for a few questions? Okay,
Yeah, sure.
perfect. So, what tasks did you do last?
Oh, I'm working in the,
what do you call the...
Multiples, working with multiples, yeah.
Multiple, that's P8 FM neutral.
Nine, I think.
Nine, I think, yeah.
PENA? Oh, okay.
It,
it should be not yet working with
multiple.
Okay,
so what concepts did you come across
while going through P9?
Oh, look, I mean, basically,
it's about arrays, yeah,
so on how to manage and handle arrays
using C,
and obviously the concept of storing
multiple values in this arrays, yeah.
Ohh.
OK, so what do you understand when ARYAN?
Pardon?
What do you understand by array?
Like what does array mean?
But sorry, can you just say that again?
What does array mean?
Oh, okay, no. So basically,
it's a data type that allows you to store
multiple values in just one single
element, basically. And then basically,
Yeah.
you can manage that element and expand it
or contract it based on what engine needs
for the program.
Okay,
do you know something called as index in
array?
Yes, yeah, yeah, so, yeah, so, basically,
every single location of that array has
So...
an index. Each starts, it starts at zero,
so, basically,
zero would be the first position,
and then obviously start incrementing by
one to the end of. So, for example,
on a right with five different elements
of the five different positions.
It will have indices 0, one, two, three,
and four.
Perfect. So for example,
if I want to access or use the first
element of an array,
do you know how do we use it?
Do we call the array value or through the
index?
through the index.
You need to do it through the index.
So basically you always want to call
basically the array of the name of the
array or the element that you are
managing at that point in the program.
And you basically call the index and
basically say, okay,
I need to access this particular index or
I want to access this index.
Oh, perfect.
So I think I missed on one small topic,
which I realised it right now.
Do you have time for me to ask you a few
It.
questions? Oh, okay.
Do you know what is a pointer?
Go ahead.
Oh, yes.
It's basically a data type or an element
Yeah.
that represent an address in the memory.
It.
Okay, and how do we call it?
Like how do we,
what is the symbol that we use for a
pointer?
I think it's, if I'm not mistaken, is the,
what do you call the, I will look at,
I think I have it in my mind,
but I cannot remember the name of the of
the character. The.
You know what is the best thing to do is
look at your keyboard and just say the
number maybe.
Number 7,
I think I'm going to put it in the chat,
No, not seven. It's.
I think. Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry, my bad.
Is the answer is, yeah. Number 8, yeah,
Yeah, perfect. Yeah. Yeah,
so anytime if you don't know something
sorry.
and if someone asks you for a symbol,
you can just look down and be like, oh,
number 81 and that's easy to answer.
But yeah, good answers.
Teh.
Thank you for taking the extra questions
and good to go.
Just make sure that when you're speaking
next time as well.
You are giving an example while you're
speaking as well. And for arrays,
mention the index because I asked you a
follow-up question because I don't think
so while giving your explanation about
array, you mentioned about the index.
So make sure that you always answer with
index as well.
Oh.
If you get any questions with that, eh?
Yeah, it's okay. PETER. Thank you.
Yes, okay, perfect.
The last person that I have is BARDAN.
Are you here?
Yeah, I'm here.
Hi, are you ready for a few questions?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Okay.
Okay, are you nervous?
No.
No, okay, perfect.
So I thought I'd make you a little more
nervous, but I am not, so okay.
Okay, then. I'm nervous.
Okay,
so could you just let me go through a few
questions? Oh, Vrisha,
do you want to do one or do you want to
ask questions?
They'll also have some bit of change. No?
Are you good?
Do you still want to ask any questions?
Do you think I missed out on anything
because these are the all?
Questions I have,
do you think I missed out on something
that you would ask as a?
I'm not sure what you've done in middle,
but about the different concepts that I
was out on a call and stuff.
But so far that I heard the start and the
end,
I think you pretty much covered the whole
thing.
Yeah, as a tutor,
is there something different you would do
or is there any different thing that you
would ask?
Because he's the last person we have.
So I just want to make sure that I'm
Okay.
covering everything and they don't get
nervous if there's an external tutor.
I think it was pretty good because those
are the questions that I had on top of my
head as well,
like rather different concepts.
What do you think you would do?
Like I would mostly hope when that I when
people give me their answers,
there's examples in there mostly because
these are important and it gives us also
idea of what they understood and maybe
some
questions, ideas as well.
Oh yeah, okay, okay, perfect. Okay,
so what I'll do is I will ask you a
follow-up questions,
like the whole list of questions that I
Okay.
have. If I missed out on something,
I will ask it to you, okay?
So what is C and how is it different from
C?
So, like,
you gonna ask me everything you asked
before?
No, I am going to try.
I'm trying to cover all the important
questions that most interviewers would
ask.
So you're the last person I have and I'll
ask you 10 questions. So yeah, go ahead.
Okay, okay. Yeah, yeah.
I think C is more low-level language than
C#.
And.
Sorry, I think I missed you.
Like it is the more low-level language
than C#.
C++.
Okay.
Is there something wrong with my computer?
Because I don't know why,
but it's blinking for me.
I'm not able to hear as well.
Just give me one second.
Yeah, okay. So I heard your answer though,
but what do you mean by low level?
It's like C is more used in system level
programming rather than, I mean, for web.
Mm.
Okay, yeah.
What is the main function when it comes
to C? What is the main function?
For like, what do you mean?
So...
Why do we need an int main function or?
Oh, and when, yeah.
Yeah, so why do we need it?
Um...
because like,
it's like the entry door for our program.
Yeah.
Yeah, okay.
Like, yeah, and we even have, like,
we even have to close it with, like,
You.
return zero.
Mm.
So it says like we have run the program.
Yeah, okay. Yeah, while going to this,
I think I missed out on this question.
What are arithmetic operators?
Operators.
Operators, yeah.
Like the plus minus, yeah,
it is like this different kind of symbols
we use, like we have the plus minus,
we have the model,
we have the what do you call for that one,
like the two asterisks exponential.
Okay.
Okay,
so I've posted two things in the chat.
How is it different from each other and
what are those operators called?
Oh, yeah. One is the AN operator,
the other one is the OR operator.
So it's like, if it's AN operator,
it's going to be like,
if the condition is true and true,
it's going to return true.
Okay.
So yeah,
so like your both the condition A&
B has to be true to get true.
Okay.
And the other one is like,
you have to have at least one true to get
through.
OK, perfect. Good answer.
We covered if statement,
else loops for different functions. Ohh,
what is the return type of a function?
Return type like.
For any function, we usually return.
So what does that return type mean?
Like what kind of function?
Yeah.
I don't get the question like what the
function give pax, right?
Jump.
Yeah.
No,
so I'm asking what does that return mean?
Like,
why do we need it or why do we use it?
What does that return mean?
Oh, oh, oh, my bad, my bad.
It's going to return the value of
Oh.
something like if it's like,
what do you say, exactly,
like if I had to take a function.
like between two different numbers,
like A, I mean,
like I set a variable for A as something
and B for something. And if I return it,
it's going to give me the value from it.
So like if I do plus,
it's going to give me something for that
one.
Perfect.
So I don't have any other questions.
I think I've covered everything else.
I would leave the platform and you had
very good answers, by the way,
but I'll leave the platform to all of you.
Do you have any follow up questions or
anything that you think was inappropriate
or you think, oh,
this is so much in depth?
Jacob.
Hi, yeah,
I was just like wondering if anyone
wanted some extra help actually, like,
like maybe if anyone's unsure of anything,
I was interested in maybe like extending
like a hand to, you know,
pull anyone out of the water.
Oh, yes.
What I would suggest is also this is a
very good thing.
Thank you for doing that as well,
because I think apart from us getting
help from someone like a student is
really nice.
So what I would suggest is also on the
discussion channel for the online
seminars,
if you can just give it a heading saying
that extra help and you could write down
a message that I'm free and.
I'll be more than happy to, you know,
help you all out.
I think most of you know that he's happy
to help you,
but also I would suggest if you can just
post a message and if people messages you,
it's good, right?
Yeah, that'd be fantastic, honestly.
It'd help me too if I'm going for the D1
Yeah, I just post a message.
active engages.
Oh yeah, yeah, it helps you. Yeah,
definitely it helps him.
Oh, good thing. I'm very happy about it.
Is there any other questions that you all
have? Vrisha, I think you have.
I, um, I'm gonna...
Um, regarding what Jacob is saying.
SIT.
Hi, Jacob.
Hit me up on Teams and let me know what
times you're free so we can discuss some
things and maybe you can help me. Yeah,
and I can help you.
Yeah, absolutely. 100%. Yeah. Yeah,
I'm free from now until like 6 in the
morning because my sleep schedule is
totally backwards. So if that helps.
How do you mean you're free from now
until 6 the next day?
Yeah, in the morning, yeah,
I'll be up all night, so...
Yeah.
Okay.
Are you in Campus? Sorry.
No, I'm online only, sorry.
Alright,
so I can contact you after around 9:00,
yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
Just send me a message and we can
Yeah.
organise something.
Oh, worries,
I need to eat something first.
That's all good.
Okay, thank you, Jacob, JEZREEL.
Do we have any other questions?
Okay, so I'll just give a quick brief,
if so, if someone wants to leave,
they are more than happy to leave after
this. This week is a test.
I think everyone has received the e-mail
regarding the online test,
how it is and how do you upload it and
everything. Apart from that,
for the test interview,
same thing for the...
interviews,
you'll receive the interviews for the
next to next week.
The timing would be something like maybe
6 to 7, 7 to 8, 5 to 6,
something like that,
and there would be different slots.
So for example,
if you've given a slot and you're not
happy with that slot,
you can reach out to Aaron and he's happy
to change the slot for you.
because we understand that for online
students,
we have a little more flexibility, I feel.
So you can change your slot.
Once you submit your test,
if you get a discuss,
that means you have to appear for the
test.
Otherwise it will be either resubmit or
redo. If it's a resubmit, after resubmit,
you will go to discuss and then there
will be an interview. So that's the.
process that you will go through.
Other than that,
I think everything is pretty much done in
the class. If you have any questions,
you can definitely hit me or Vrisha up.
There's also TARA as a helper who can
help you out.
Jacob now who has volunteered,
so I'm very happy with it.
Other than that,
if you have any questions for me now.
You can stay back and ask questions,
but if not, um...
You're free to go, I think,
and have all the best fair tests and all
the best fair interview.
Thank you.
SHAHAD AL ABBASI, do you have a question?
Do you have a hand raised?
Yes, I need to speak to Vrisha.
Vrisha, yeah.
Sure.
Guys, if sure,
I will take on your questions,
but if it's not necessarily me,
we can do Taloni as well, okay?
Especially the HD,
so I'll take one and maybe you can take
the other one, Saloni.
Oh, yes, yes.
It's just possibly about edge edge the
ideas, so I can do Maddy and maybe June,
Yeah.
you can do June.
Yeah, yeah, um,
what I'll do is I'll actually sit, uh,
Shahad,
do you want to discuss the HD idea?
It's about task,
something about task on P8.
Um...
And is Vrisha a Mark Computer?
Yes.
Um, okay, uh, Vrisha,
do you want to take that? Yeah.
I will do Shahad, yeah,
and we have two HD about Maddie and Truth,
so you can start with either of them
first, and I'll talk to Shahad first.
Okay.
Okay, perfect.
Guys, sorry.
OK, perfect.
Okay,
I think Shun is happy to discuss it with
me. Shun,
you're happy for me to give you a call?
Yep, okay, perfect.
TARA, Maddie,
do you have questions regarding HD as
well?
Oh, yes, just for the task.
Oh, perfect. I don't think so, Tara,
you can take this call. Otherwise,
I would be more than happy for you to
take the call because I think they want
approval from the tutor whether their
task is up to the thing or no.
Yeah.
But I don't think so we have any students.
If you have,
if you want to take care of the kids or
something,
you're more than happy to leave the call
as well. I don't want to keep you waiting.
If you don't have anything, yeah,
I'm sure, I'm sure that's fine. Yes,
Are you sure?
Yeah, no worries.
have a good day. Bye bye.
You too, bye.
Uh, it's Maddy is also for HD and this.
Okay.